emacs:
    consult lsp symbols is super slow and ugly. why is it much faster and nicer looking if i do consult lsp symbols file ?

    would prefer if i could run cape-dabbrev immediately when no lsp matches are found. CANNOT find out how to do this and suggest not researching it anymore in the future. find a fucking work around if you want but dont try

    lsp, flycheck and normal compilation dont work together at all. bacon is really nice so i dont really wanna switch away from it but the discrepancies are really annoying. they happen especially when features exist since flycheck will use different --features than lsp itself which will also use different features than bacon. it would be nice to do ONE compilation and to use the output for everything?? can i use lsp diagnostics in the terminal? 
    i hate diagnostics jumping since i have to wait for the lsp results to come in every time and it sucks. the best usability would be to add the ability to save the current file (because i fixed the error) but jump to the next error location before saving it! one idea is to add something to lsp-diagnostics-updated-hook that jumps to the next error immediately when they are received. alternatively we could save the error locations from a previous run somehow. flycheck-error-list is almost ideal, but there is no such thing for all the errors in the workspace :| https://github.com/emacs-lsp/lsp-mode/issues/382 . I even tried switching to eglot for this. Overall I feel like the goto definition/reference performance of eglot was slightly faster, but everything else about the tooling sucked. Initially I loved the flymake-show-project-diagnostics (or whatever the exact name was) command, but it just resulted in stale errors/warnings which caused more problems than they solved. compared to that consult-lsp-diagnostics is actually quite good. getting it to show documentations and errors was a fucking nightmare and i never want to work with eldoc/flymake again tbh. 
    i suppose this all becomes a bit better if i dont have anything like bacon running and only use the emacs lsp to get diagnostics

    shitty lsp suggestion ordering. it should be fields and methods belonging to the struct first and then anything from traits

    sometimes ci get a message like "could not assert ownership over selection: CLIPBOARD" when deleting lines and it stops me from deleting the fucking line which is the most triggering shit on earth

    custom evil surrounds cannot be repeated with . (function, generic, ...)

    magit doesnt work at all anymore

leftwm: I want to use it but configuring hotkeys the way I want to has been hard with lefthk/sxhkd. The main problem is that I don't have good visual feedback for my modes which makes it zero fun. I also couldnt find a way to go "back a mode/chord" (instead of exiting it all together) in sxhkd. Try this again in a year or so when lefthk has matured? Find out whether anything has changed first

xmonad:
    cant shift windows to the right/left
    the fucking mode doesnt go away in the bottom